The purpose of marriage
-----------------------
'So the man gave names to all the livestock, the birds of the air and al lthe beasts of the field. But for Adam no suitable helper was found. So the Lord God caused the man to fall into a deep sleep; and while he was sleeping, he took one of the man's ribs and closed up the place with flesh. Then the Lord God made a woman from the rib he had taken out of th emand, and he brought her to the man.

The man said,
"This is now the bone of my bones
and flesh of my fleshshe shall be called 'woman,'
for she was taken out of man."

For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife, and they will become one flesh." Genesis 2:20-24


One of the most controversial topics in the modern age is how to treat the practice of marriage. Many, frustrated or frightened by the idea of being locked into such a relationship, run from it or stand against it. Many others are attracted to the idea, of living forever in love with another, an endless romance.

The problems with both of these ideas is that they come from selfishness. Do not mistake me, I don't mean that in the sense of these people being "sinful". I do mean that they are literally selfish, in that these opinions and feelings come from thinking about themselves, and do not realize the enormity of their mistake in how they think of marriage. 

There is no question that marriage is difficult. It requires two flawed, weak human beings to turn their two lives into one life, and any number of things can go wrong during this process. We find differences between each other that create conflict, We struggle to communicate properly how we feel and think, and we often lack the capacity to appreciate the love and feelings of our spouse in return. We lack the love required to make the personal sacrifices to properly love the other person. We find ourselves too weak or too unwise to deal with situations that marriage puts us in. And all too often, we fail the other person in small ways, and big ways. 

But the bible clearly states that we should only be in marrital sexual relationships:
[Verses on marriage]

Thus it so happens that many people find themselves in marriages they are not prepared for. But Jesus and the bible are also insistent that divorce is not what God desires:
'"Haven't you read," he replied, "that at the beginning the Creator 'made them male and femail,' and said, 'for this reason a man will leave his father and mother become united to his wife, and the two will become one flseh'? So they are no longer two, but one. Therefore what God has joined together, let man not separate." Matthew 19:4-7

If you are struggling with feelings of frustration on the topic of marriage, do not think you are alone. Even Jesus' disciples state what you are feeling, for the very next lines in the passage above are: 
"Why then," they asked, "did moses command a man give his wife a certificate of divorce and sender her away?"

Jesus replied, "Moses permitted you to divorce your wives because your hearts were hard. Bit was not this way from the beginning. I tell you that anyone who divorces his wife, except for marital unfaithfullness, and marries another woman commits dultery."

The disciples said to him, "If this is the situation between a husband and wife, it is better not to marry."

Jesus replied, "Not everyone can accept this word, but only those to whom it has been given. For some are eunuchs because they were born that way; others were made that way by men; and others have renounced marriage because of the kingdom of heaven. The one who can accept this should accept it." Matthew 19:8-12

[More explanation on how divorce (or separation) can sometimes be necessary, for men are sinful and in their hard hearts destroy their own marriages]

Many people look at these issues and decide the whole idea isn't worth it. What they fail to realize is that they cannot escape because everyone wants to be loved. Unfortunately, to properly love someone requires us to love like God does, because anything less causes the above described situations. 

[section explaining the selfishness 

In order to find the love we need, that is, someone who simply loves us and not for things *about* us or things they can *get* from the relationship, 

The only love that satisfies us thoroughly, the love that satisfies our deepest needs, is love like God's love, Both parties in the marriage must find a way to love the other divinely, which requires us to be holy. 

Marriage's *purpose* is to *make* a person full of love for their spouse and our family. That is, marriage is to make us holy, in God's image. And by doing that we grow to love each other so much we become "one flesh", by becoming so intermingled and entangled with the other person that we cease to function as two individuals, but to become one person in both practice and in spirit. 

[This paragraph deserves a bunch of bible verses talking about how we are to be in relationship to each other (like the one about not letting the sun go down on our anger)]
The amazing thing, is that God foresaw all this, and designed the marriage relationship in such a way as to encourage us to grow more holy, to grow to be more like God. If you think about each of the situations described above, you will find the marriages and couples that succeed in dealing with those issues are the ones who learn to behave like God calls us to behave: to be honest, to communicate with each other about our grievances and put them aside (rather than as a grudge), to sacrifice for one another, to be kind, to be merciful, to be constant (as in, not sleeping around).

When we encounter a trial in our marriage, and don't give up but decide to work on the issue, we discover we are are actually attempting to become like Christ. To sacrifice for the other person is the same kind of sacrifice Jesus tells us to make for our neighbor in order to love our neighbor.

[further flesh out this section]
[Not sure where I totally want to go here, will have to think and pray about it. There's a definite connection to be made here that discipleship helps us become better spouses.]


The Church as the bride of Christ
--------------------------------- 
[need an opening verse here]

This is a point I find immensely interesting. The church is described as the bride of Christ. In the past I found this idea uncomfortable. On a very basic level, isn't this idea at least 50% gay (if half the church is men)? Also, how does Jesus get around the idea that he himself preached a man should have one wife (rather than an entire planet of spouses).

What I did not understand then was that the church being the bride of Christ is a spiritual idea that only makes sense in the context of how the bible looks at marriage. In marriage, a man becomes "one flesh" with his wife. As stated above, a way to understand this is to know that becoming "one flesh" at the greater and more important level means that a couple's lives become so entangled together that they function as a single person, neither person complete without the other. 

This is what God wants, he wants us to be so mixed together with him, that we function as a single being. We are to know God, to have him in every aspect of our lives so that our purposes and actions become his actions, and that we can be with God forever. We are to become "one spirit" with God, Jesus, and the Holy Spirit.

Doesn't this sound a lot like the process of knowing God by becoming a disciple of Jesus? 

[this section can be fleshed out] 

Becoming one with God
---------------------

[not sure what to write next]
