Wired to love
-------------

Agape love, is love that does not depend on any positive feature and is equally unihibited by any flaw in the target of its love. 

To my mind, seeing men in their full adulthood, it is strange that our earliest love tends to be most similar to agape love than elsewhere in life. You can see it in how a son wants his father to be proud of him, because he loves his father, even if he does not know why. It manifests in our strange attachment to our parents, and often to a lesser degree, our siblings. It is telling that, even when said parental love gives way to anger, that the child still wishes for their parents to look on him with kindness. Looking at it from above we can see that men are from their beginnings more closely in tune with agape love than with other kinds of love, as we love our parents without obvious need and often against reason. That we are physically wired to love, before any choice on the matter becomes apparent.

This first love is often our earliest emotional concept and it is in complete contradiction to everything life naturally teaches men later on, that we love a thing because it is good and hate a thing because it is bad. This first love, in contrast, simply loves, so much so that we will defend the object of it by doing things that we know is often completely foreign to that love: adopting whatever behaviors, attitudes, and general spirit our parents. In such a way we learn to be and do things that have no original connection to our first love, and how the misery of mankind is transmitted throughout history. 

Strange, is it not, that so much of our successes and failures , all our crimes and innovations have at some root, no matter the remote date, so often originate from simple parental love. Many of us who have had extremely damaging effects from this interaction, often through abuse and negative behaviors of our parents and close family, have to spend a lifetime undoing the work that was done in only a few short years in order to achieve health. This is why virtually everyone alive has defensive walls, learned in childhood, to defend against too close an attachment to others around us. We become so insulated, that we can no longer feel and, indeed, can all too often no longer develop unconditional love at all.

This is a core issue that every Christian believer must address, that our God is the God of unconditional agape love, a love that loves us in spite of any sin and unimproved by any improvement in ourselves. A love we both know intimately and cherish, and also greatly fear. To many, this concept is more terrifying than a God without love or no God at all. We instictually retract from knowing a love such as this, as every inner child has struggled with to one degree or another, because of the pain it brings, and the fear that such a love my betray us.

What is different about God's love, and is something that many hear but cannot understand, is that our God has love similar to our earliest love (and is, in fact, the source of it) but is perfectly capable and at home in such a state. That is, God is not the type of being to hurt us in the ways that we have been hurt in our pasts. That is, God will never betray us, as we have so often been betrayed by the object of our love. Indeed, every action God takes, even ones that look like such a betrayal, ultimately compound to such a devastatingly deep understanding of our human life that it cannot be understood. 


"My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?"
- Jesus Christ, Mathew 27:46 & Mark 15:34 

This truth of God's love, and that all his actions come from His love, is so true that it is impossible to easily explain to someone experiencing pain and loss (which God, of course, is allowing in their life). This problem can be seen addressed by the very greatest masterworks in any age, including the Bible itself. Jesus's Crucifixtion, The book of Job, [further examples], each deal directly with this problem of immense, unfathomable, and unearned pain in the life of men. (further helpful examples: The problem of pain (CS Lewis), A grief Observed (CS Lewis)) 

Nevertheless, it is true that God's actions and innermost being are of love, even when they seem like hate. In fact, most often a person cannot truly understand that God loves them *until* they have experienced pain and hate. This is the reversal of the pain of childhood love of their earthly parents, that God's love is the love of the heavenly parent, the actual complemenent to our earthly first love that our own earthly parents could not satisfy: 1 Corinthians 13:4-5: “Love is patient, love is kind. It does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud. It does not dishonor others, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs."

The core problem for all believers is this: to live out the fulfilling life that Christ has made available to us, we must embrace the fact that God is love, with all that that entails. We are called to know God, to love God with our innermost being, inspite of the potential for unlimited pain. And subsequently, we are called to do the same for others. In our fallen state, we cannot do this. Nay, we are so far from being able to do it that we fail even making a beginning of such a trial on our own.   


The Path of Loving my Neighbor
------------------------------
To clarify the issue, let me take the common notion of "loving others", that is, to love others who have done no physical or societal wrong against others, and to stand against those who would injure them. On the surface, this seems well and good, as it actually is the pleasure of enjoying the happiness of others in combination with justice against the wicked. The problem is, that this is not enough to save the human soul. 

I do not just mean salvation from damnation (which is true, but merely a sidenote here). What I mean is that such a thing is not love as God expresses it, and is not really love at all. It is simply removing prejudices (justly despised) and learning to greater appreciate that which was already good and to condemn and set to trial all that is evil. How hard is it to love an already lovely thing?  How hard is it to hate what is already hateful? These are mere truisms of behavior and provide no insight onto what one must actually *do* to make life better, to better uphold love.

Those who see this problem hold a common few philosophies. The first, and the most childish in its cruelty, is to simply condemn the evil in this world and to destroy it. I do not jest in saying this is the real emotional stance of many men and women who have not had the truth that all men carry evil shown before their eyes, and this simply view is always destined to end in tragedy, often of a deeply personal nature. 

The more mature philosophical stance held is to believe in the *idea* of love and justice, that we must encourage people to make the choice to love and not to hate. And this is the ultimate land that most non-Christian men live in. To attempt to uphold what they think good, to fight what they think bad, and to encourage growth of their philosophy so the good may grow and the bad may wane.

The momentous problem that adherents to this modern philosophy is that it is entirely the opposite of God's love, of the love Jesus Christ gave. In contrast to the philosophy of loving what is good and hate what is evil, God's love loves all men, the evil and the good, whose actions make no difference in God's love of them, a love that only hates the acts of evil itself. And it is only this love, this difficult andseemingly alien love, that can actually save the world of men.

The reason for this is simple, that all men are evil. That is not to say, as many assume I mean, that men cannot become better, or that we cannot, in some measure, achieve a better age for mankind. Nay, it seems only too probable that there will be times and places where goodness in humanity is honored. What I mean is, that any such time, place, or society is doomed to wilt because such things are built upon that society's belief and beliefs are fragile, while human nature (until the coming of the Lord) is eternal and insatiable.

What one will always find in a place they considered to be good is that, if only they would look a little closer, they would find all the evils of men sitting, if possible, even more comfortably in the background. Men and women will still lie to each other, they will still cheat their neighbor and on each other, except perhaps, in that time, such things will be seen as common and acceptable even when they cause irreparable damage to a loving soul. Selfishness and cruelty may be looked down on, but will still be enacted in private. Murders will occur, poverty persist, jealousy endure. Even in the perfect socialist kingdom, where all are given equal measure and all work toward the common good, you will find that human nature not banished but merely hidden behind walls of philosophy, where behind it will still enact its hellish desires and pleasures.  

I do not ascribe to any philosophy or religion to know such things to be true, I need merely look at the entirety of written history to see how human action plays out in selfishness. Futheremore I need not even look at history, I need only look at the selfish survival of nature. Looking at it from an evolutionary or ecological perspective, all things fight for their own survival and own good. That is the ruling notion of this world, and all ideas of goodness or hatred be nothing but flowers that rise and wilt beneath the weight of time, because our animal nature is one of selfishness, and good society is not a nature at all.

In spite of this idea, which is firmly present in the minds of all modern people, whether as a root reality to be accepted, a reality to grow beyond, or a reality to recognize as evil (as I do), it is reality nonetheless. It is in this light that one can begin to understand the wisdom of God, how clearly he understands the nature of man. That all men carry a seemingly unkillable evil in their hearts, but yet he, the ultimate Good, loves men in spite of themselves.

This is why God's love is so difficult to understand to someone who believes in loving the good in men as opposed to simply loving men. God, the originator of all goodness, of the very weight in our hearts that tells us to resist evil, seemingly disregards evil and good, and loves men more than can be understood. This is agape love, this is the love that Jesus Christ shared, and it is at the heart of the Good News, that by faith in Jesus Christ and his sacrifice on the Cross we have our sins forgiven, our evil nature changed to good, life eternal, to be adopted into the heavenly family, and most of all, to know God the Creator of all as Father, brother and friend. 

Through this Gospel, this Good News the Lord gives us hope. Indeed, it is our only hope, as no other hope escapes the confines of our own evil nature. But we are left with a fact, heavy as stone. God did not only save us, he gave us new life, and that new life calls us to Love God, and to Love our neighbor. But how do I love God, who I only begin to know? And how can I love my neighbor, the miserable wretch, when I know he (and I) do not deserve love without condition? How can I live a love that I do not feel?


The Secret of Discipleship
--------------------------

There is a secret, however, that most ignore in facing this problem: that God himself provides us a way to do this task and it is blatantly present in all four Gospels. We are to become Disciples of Jesus Christ. That is, to accept Jesus as our teacher, to correct us and train us, to be like Him, as he is both the Son of Man, and Allmighty God. 

Such a concept is so maddeningly obvious, but almost universally ignored. We ignore it because it is emminently hard, because the very concept is painful, and, secretly, because we know it would be a poison to following our earthly lifestyles. I myself can attest to all of this within my own life. 

The process seen in the Bible of Jesus and his disciples is like this:

1) Jesus separated his disciples and followers from unnecessary distractions
2) Jesus taught via illustrations and examples in front of the listeners 
3) Jesus let his disciples ask questions, and He to answer them
4) Jesus showed his disciples to meditate and pray on the teaching 
5) Jesus showed his disciples to take the lessons and prayerfully attempt to follow through on the teaching that Jesus spoke and God revealed in their hearts.


This process is repeated throughout Jesus' entire life of teaching. And the amazing thing is this, for both his disciples then and now, it works. Taking the time to separate ourselves from life to focus on God, to listen to his teachings, to think about the teachings and pray to God about them, and then to attempt to put them into practice, does what no one seems to expect (or at least, secretly fears): it works. The great Christian writers throughout history have attested to God's ability to change our hearts and lives, as they themselves say and show they have experienced it. Again, to my own wonder, I can also attest to all of this, within my own life, from my earliest current practices of this regiment, to my hope in the eventual flourishing of my life in God's eyes, that I am slowly but surely growing to love God more, and to love my neighbor more as well.

This process is continuous, from silence and meditation, teaching, and subsequent prayer and prayerfully living. It should be no shock that such a practical method would achieve practical results. What is a shock, is that this process, for many the first time since birth, to cause true, God borne love to grow again in our hearts. This is the miracle of Jesus' practice and teachings, that the practical effect of them is to grow new, impossible love for God and for our neighbor from the dead dust of the earth.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

Next up: Discipleship in practice, helfpul words on becoming a Disciple 

[Putting it into practice]
[Spiritual disciplines]
[Identity of a disciple, all who are good and bad disciples are nevertheless disciples]
[How it works: Theology of Discipleship, zoe and good infection (CS Lewis). About why Discipleship as the above works, while doing it on our own does not]

