
Hate is not the opposite of love. Hate can conflict with love. Hate does make holes that pushes out love. But the funny thing is, we can also hate what we love, side by side. In a very honest sense, hate and love are siblings, not enemies. 

One thing I believe is that sin is a corruption, not an existence.

[Verses about the nature of sin?]

Anything that has been made has its source in the Creator. A la, any emotion that we can have, and any kind of action, would have its place in a perfect world. It may feel strange to think, that even hate may have a place in the Kingdom. 

[Verses quotes: Love the sinner, hate the sin.]

[Verses quotes: Hate the Enemy? (I'm pretty sure we are told to hate the devil and evil spirits. Not sure, gotta clarify)]

I don't think the word 'hate' is used lightly here. And I'm especially sure 'love' comes first in this sentence for a reason. I've seen it many times where people fall into the trap, in an effort to love people, that everything is okay and that everything they do is okay. The truth is, not everything they do is okay. It corrupts us, corrupts others, hurts us, and most importantly separates us further from God. This last one is difficult to understand, because if you are Christian, God is always with you. But in a very particular sense, we can still be further away than we should. In fact, God tells us many times to follow him, to chase him.

[Verses about chasing/following/coming closer to God.]


God also has a very strong opinion about sin. How could he not? Sin is what separates his children and creation from him (and each other).

[Verses about God's opinions of sin]


By his very nature, God cannot stand sin, which is why he chose to sacrifice his one and only Son to pay the price for our sin.

[Verse about the wages of sin is death]

[Verse about God giving his one and only Son for us]

By all accounts (and there are many), God has a wrathful hatred towards sin. But he loves *us*. He loves us in spite of our sin. In fact he loves us so much that he was willing to sacrifice one that was more important to him than himself. I really want to emphasize this idea. God hated sin so much that because his children became sinful, he had to condemn them to hell and to an existence of separation from him. Literally the dead walking, because God, the source of life, would not and could not touch his creation. But in spite of that, he still loves us, and he loves us so much he gave the most important thing he could possible give, something with so much value to him that we can't even begin to begin to grasp it. He had his own Son killed, so we could live. That's how much God loves us.


How can such a being exist where love and hatred can coexist, and in such a pure and mighty torrent? [need to rework previous end of sentence. Looking for clarity through simple words here]. Well the first answer is that love and hatred aren't even intended to be enemies. When in the right place, hatred is actually an action of love. 


Now, I feel I must pause to clarify something. Wrath, hatred toward others and toward your enemies (except, possibly, The Enemy) *IS* a sin. It is a wholly despicable, merciless sin; a sin that many have been condemned in hell for. There is no doubt that hatred, in its normal sinful capacity is a blemish before the face of God.

Wrath, or hatred in its sinful form, is hatred of anything that is not sin. Hatred of good, hatred of people, hatred of the things that God created to be loved. Hating those things is to push away or destroy love in that place. God calls us to surrender and give it to him so he can root it out. Such hatred does nothing but destroy, and it is a poison.


But hatred, in at least one sense, has a place. We are to be wildly for people and wildly against the sin. We are called to love people, to sacrifice everything for God in pursuit of loving him and loving his creations. But we are also to be the staunchest, bitterest enemies of corruption that is not from God. We are to be the enemies of pride of the fallen. For pride was the first sin, and the father of all sins, and it and all its kind are our bitterest enemies. We are to be children of the kindom, caretakers of the world, those who love our neighbor. But we are to Hate the very Gates of Hell.





[Possible usecase of hating the enemy you must fight in combat? Not sure]
