



sub section:
-----------
The conversation (or battle) between viewpoints on relationships between sexes is a conversation that has to happen. Unfortunately, it is happening in the wrong way. Or rather, it occurs all to often that most people has their heart in the wrong place. Any tendency in people is originally something God ordained, but may be twisted in the fall. There are arguments that men or women are better or worse at some things than others. Men are more violent by nature, or women are more loving by nature. That men are better at logic and the sciences and women are better at being people focused. 

These things may be true. Or they may not be true. I actually have no idea, I haven't done the research, I don't have the data. I also don't have a philosophical position on the subject, because at best, it is a minor point with little or no importance to our beliefs and behavior, and at worst carries signifant weight in people's minds that sways them from doing what God tells them to do: love their neighbor.

Now, it is true that God, having created everything may have intended some people for some task, and some for another. But that is not for us to decide. It is literally a matter between Creator and creation. It is no business of ours if a man was created by God to be a stay at home father. It is equally none of our business if a woman is to be an electrical engineer. Stastistics doesn't come into it, it is God's choices and our relationship with him that determine what we should do with our lives. 

Statistics give humanity a tool with which to help us understand tendencies, how things work most of the time and how they do not work most of the time. It is a powerful tool to interpret data of the universe around us. But we forget that just because something happens a specific way does not mean that it is God's will that it always behave that way. Take for instance a curious statistic of humanity. 99.9% (repeating of course) of humans have been merely human. Only one, happened to also be God. That is an outlier of stark significance that follows no trend whatsoever, yet it is possibly God's greatest known work to datate. 

[quotes from jesus about his Divinity like "before Abraham, I Am"]

If a woman is an engineer by birth or by upbringing, that is between her and God. If a woman feels she is to be a mother, by birth or upbringing, it is between her and God not between her and anyone else. If a black man feels he wants to be a hairdresser that is between God and no one else. If a black man feels he is to be a soldier it is between him and God.

That is not to say it is wrong for us to express opposition to a decision made by our neighbor. It would not be wrong for anyone to disagree or caution another on their choices. It is, however, outside of what is morally right to place a *moral obligation* on their behavior that God himself did not put on them.

Additionally, God may say no to those desires, or those initial inclinations, for the Lord challenges us and molds us into new things everyday. [The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away.] But is assuradley not society's or the church's place to say what you must do outside the context of what God has stated. For God has given us the bible, which contains many specifications to obedience and righteousness in accordance to the great two [insert quote "Love the Lord your God with all your heart, your soul, your mind, and your strength. The second greatest is like these, to love your neighbor as yourself"]. But Jesus was harshest with the moral and religious lawgivers of the time [quote on how the pharesees add their own laws to invalidate God's laws].

sub sub section:
------------
The following is somewhat outside the scope of the previous section, but I feel it is an important attachement. Bringing this concept into the workplace would rightly follow a similar paradigm of God leading us to love him and others. One aspect that the Christian life teaches us is to . If your task is to honor God by doing the best job you can, then, in a hiring capacity I feel it reasonable to attempt to hire based on your better moral and logical judgement. Just as being a woman and an engineer is no business of ours, it seems to me that we should also respect an employer or hiring manager who feels that in order to do their best job, to live out their work life to honor God, that we should respect their decisions on who is best suited for a particular task. It would be wrong of them to not hire a female or black prospective employee simply because they are female or black, but it is entirely within their perogative to do so if they feel the candidate is not the best fit.

With that said, it is every Christian's duty to judge fairly and not to let bias's cloud our judgement. Our God is a just God, and has made it very clear that he would have us behave fairly to one another. Most of all, judging with an unfair bias is not Loving of your neighbor, whom your Lord God created in his perfect judgement. [this section can be expanded with more quotes about just authority] Therefore, judge fairly whenever you are given authority.


One thing that is not true, and must be stated as such, is that this does not make a person's sin an acceptable thing. It does however mean that the primary person to whom all sin is against is God.

[Quotes about Jesus being able to forgive sins because he is the chief offended party, like when he healed the crippled man lowered through the roof]. 

That does not mean that we are not to recognize sin as such. God has explicitly revealed many sins, of which [quote from Jesus about not letting one word be left out from the bible]. It is merely that we are not to judge others for their sins, as we do not know their hearts, nor are we able to even clearly see our own hearts as God does. Therefore we must stand against sin, but Love our neighbor indiscriminately.

There are certain behaviors and relationships that God has called men and women specifically to take up in obedience to him. [section about what God actually says about behavior and men and women]

To my understanding, this what God has laid out as rules for men and women. Beyond that, and within the context of such things I believe it is between each person and God to work out the truth and obedience to these things, and also between the man, woman, and God within the context of marriage. Beyond these, however, I do not think it is our place to judge.
